Stepwise description has been given below:

Data Extraction

Mainly this is the first step for the Digital Signature project..At this phase we usually extract
data from an image..The coding that is being used to initiate this project is considered to be java.
We can convert any image file to text by Optical Character Recognition using the java program.
The API we are using here is the Tesseract OCR which is free licensed.

Before running the program we have to download and install Tesseract in our PC.

In our project we have three classes in particular package which revolves on this step..
For example:There are classes namely my_main.java,Read_file.java etc which are included in the package 
of data extraction in which Read_file.java would read from the output file that is being created by
executing or running my_main.java class..Mainly my_main.java class contains the path fow a input and
output file from where the execution begins..


Message Digest(Hash)

Mainly for message digest or we can say hash value is the step that provides integrity to data.For this
purpose SHA 256 is being used.SHA-256 stands for Secure Hash Algorithm – 256 bit is a type of hash function. A hash function is a type
of mathematical function which turns data into a fingerprint of that data called a hash. It is like a 
formula or algorithm which takes the input data and turns it into an output of a fixed length, which 
represents the fingerprint of the data. In simple words, SHA-256 is one of the cryptographic hash function
which has digest length of 256 bits.
In this project, SHA-256 has been used to achieve data integrity. A hash function is a one-way function,
thus it is impossible to generate back the input data from its hash. So, you can go from the input data
to the hash but not from the hash to the input data.


Generating Keys

Mainly DSA (Digital Signature Algorithm) is being employed in this project..Keys that are generated are
of two types: Public and Private..The private key is applied at beginning i.e from the sender side
after message digest is created through SHA 256.Message digest is a fixed length hash number which is fed 
to DSA algorithm..


Asymmetric Encryption

Asymmetric Cryptography is also known as public key cryptography. It uses public and private keys to
encrypt and decrypt data. One key in the pair which can be shared with everyone is called the 
public key. The other key in the pair which is kept secret and is only known by the owner is called
the private key. Either of the keys can be used to encrypt a message; the opposite key from the one
used to encrypt the message is used for decryption.
In this project encryption is done on sender side or signer side after creating message digest.At
reciever end or we can say verification side signature is being verified by decrypting the encrypted
message through public key..And afterwards,hash value is being compared.If hash value comes out
to be same,then the signature is verified,else signature is disqualified for validation or is 
considered to be invalid..

Project plot

Mainly this project provides integrity and authentication where integrity refers to feature that provides
surety that data is not changed during transmission and authentication is any process by which system
 verifies the identity of user who wishes to access it..
