                                                Computer Based Examintion System
Today Online Examination System has become a fast growing examination method because of its speed and accuracy.
It also requires less manpower to execute the examination. Almost all organizations now-a-days, are conducting their objective exams by online examination system, it saves students time in examinations.
Organizations can also easily check the performance of the student that they give in an examination. As a result of this, organizations are releasing results in less time. It also helps the environment by saving paper. According to today’s requirement, online examination project in PHP is very useful to learn it. 
 In an online examination system examine get their user id and password with his/her admit card. This id is already saved in the examination server. When examine login to the server he/she get his/her profile already register. On the certain time examine gets the message to start the examination. All answers given by examine are saved into the server with his/her profile information.
Online examination system also allows to correct the answer if the examiner needed to change any answer in the examination time duration, however, after the time duration any change will not allow. This also makes checking the answer easy and error free as computers are more accurate than man and provide fast results too. PHP is a web base language so we can create an online examination system in PHP.
Administrator of Online Examination has multiple features such as Add, Delete, Update Topics and Question. To Login as Admin put inside your browser www.applicationname/admin.The user will automatically get the updated version by logging using the user ID and Password provided at the time of registration. No need of reprinting, appearance, vigilance and the job is done. 
Online examination system features:
1.	Login system must be present and secured by password.
2.	Ability to save the answer given by the candidate along with the question.
3.	Answer checking system should be available.
4.	Could Update Profile
5.	Log out after the over.
6.	Admin Panel
Project objective:
Online examination system is a non-removable examination pattern of today’s life.We need more time saving and more accurate examination system as the number of applicants is increasing day by day. For all IT students and professionals, it is very important to have some basic understanding about the online examination system.
Brief overview of the technology:
Front end: HTML, CSS, JavaScript
HTML: HTML is used to create and save web document. E.g. Notepad/Notepad++
CSS: (Cascading Style Sheets) Create attractive Layout
JavaScript: it is a programming language, commonly use with web browsers.
Back end: PHP, MySQL
PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor (PHP) is a technology that allows software developers to create dynamically generated web pages, in HTML, XML, or other document types, as per client request. PHP is open source software.
MySQL: MySql is a database, widely used for accessing querying, updating, and managing data in databases.
 
